aka resource markets.
### The factor market is where the factors of production are sold by households to businesses.

Again, the factors of production ([[1.1 Basic Economic Concepts]]) are 
1. land
2. labor
3. capital
4. entrepreneurship

The main idea of microeconomics is still present: 
* suppliers --> provide goods --> for consumers.

But now we are shifting our perspective from a **product market** (businesses sell to individual consumers) to instead the Average Joes -- households  -- as the protagonist of this fantasy story: **factor market**

* The suppliers are now the household and the consumer is now the company/firm.
	* The household offers a factor of production -- usually labor (aka they work there as an employee) -- to the company; again the principles of law of supply and demand apply.
		* In this case, the household represent the supply and the company represent the demand of that good.

For the factors of production mentioned above, the corresponding payments for those factors are:

1. land = rent
2. labor = wage
3. capital = interest
4. entrepreneurship  = profit.

Basically what is paid to the households in exchange for providing said factor of production.
* some Mexican gardener will earn a wage for working their ahh off.
* a landlord will earn rent from their tenants
* a shareholder will earn interest from investing in a company
* a director will earn profit from producing absolute cinema.

> A factor market focuses on all factors of production -- but for the sake of simplicity and not having to be vague about everything, 'labor' will be the predominant focus. Just be aware that there is more to factor markets than labor.
#### Labor Demand and Supply

It's literally the same mashed potatoes.

**Demand**
* There is an INVERSE relationship between wage and quantity of labor demanded.
	* the number of workers that businesses are willing to hire increases as the wage falls.

**Supply**
* There is a DIRECT (or positive) relationship between wage and quantity of labor supplied.
	*  the number of workers that are willing and able to sell their labor increases as the wage increases.

Note:
* In real life, workers have different trade-offs between work and leisure. One worker might value working remote to the point of willingly taking a job that pays $20k less. Another worker might prioritize/value higher the job that pays $20k more.

**Derived Demand**
* In the factor market, the demand for resources is determined (derived) by the products they help to produce.  
	* i.e. the demand for carpenters is derived from the demand for homes. If there was a spike in demand for new houses, demand for carpenters will increase as well.
* Society determines the value -- and thus the demand -- of the resource.

---
#### Analyzing Productivity

**Marginal Resource Cost (MRC)**
* *the cost of hiring one more worker* -- it is the "marginal cost" that we are used to.
	* i.e. wage rate.
* MRC = ΔTC/Δ(inputs)

##### Product

**Total Product**
* the total amount of product produced by some number of workers.

**Marginal Product (MP)**
* the additional product produced by hiring one more worker
* MP = ΔTP/Δ(inputs)

**Marginal Revenue Product**
* the additional revenue produced by hiring one more worker
* MRP = MP · P
	* where P is the price of the good 
	* marginal revenue of those people = the marginal product of those people · the price of those products.
* Can also be expressed via: ΔTR/Δ(inputs)

The law of diminishing marginal returns still applies: after a certain point, **MP decreases as more workers are hired.**

> Because MRP = MP · P, it is clear that MRP is directly proportional to MP as well as P. Which implies that if the law of diminishing returns applies to MP, it will also apply to MRP. And naturally, if P changes, MRP will also change to reflect that.

**Profit Maximizing**

As before, firms wants to maximize profit. So they will continue to squeeze out every last bit of profit as they can: they will continue to hire workers up to where **MRP = MRC** -- same concepts.



