Refer back to [[2.5 Equilibrium]] if needed; they are literally the same concepts but now in the perspective of factor markets.

**Equilibrium**
* a market equilibrium exists where Q$_s$ = Q$_d$. 
* This is the point where all workers who are willing and able to sell their labor do so to firms that are willing and able to hire them.
* There is no shortage of workers or surplus of labor.

**Shortages and Surpluses**
* Surplus (of labor)
	* At this wage, more workers want to sell their labor than there are firms willing to hire.
* Shortage
	* At this wage, there is a shortage of workers willing to sell their labor compared to the number that the firms want to hire. 

##### Determinants of Demand
* Remember derived demand: the thing you make affects how much you get paid.

1. Price of the Output / Product Demand
	* if the price of the product goes up, the worker who produces that product becomes more valuable
		* can be mathematically viewed with MRP = MP · P
	* i.e. if there is an increase in the demand for pizza, then there will be greater demand for all the resources that are involved in the production of pizza, including cheese, sauce, dough, and workers
2. Productivity of the worker
	* a more productive worker is more valuable
		* can be having more knowledge, experience, etc. --> more competent
	* more productive = more MRP = more profit for the firm.
3. Change in the price of other resources
	* substitute resources vs complementary resources
		* substitutes share inverse relationships.
		* complements share direct relationships.

> Remember that a change in price does not shift the demand curve; this still applies in factor markets. A change in wages changes the **quantity demanded**, not the **demand** itself. There is movement along the curve; the curve itself does not move.
##### Determinants of Supply

1. Education
	* More requirements needed = less supply of people even able to qualify.
2. Availability of other options
3. Immigration and mobility of workers
	* If a country enacts stricter immigration laws than that will shift the labor supply to the left because of the smaller pool of workers.
4. Culture expectations
5. Working conditions
6. Preferences for Leisure






