*Describes the relationship between inputs used in a production process --> amount of product produced.*

* used to show how much output can be generated with a given set of inputs.

*Note that these inputs are the same general types of resources: ==land, labor, capital, entrepreneurship==* ([[1.1 Basic Economic Concepts]])

Fixed Resources:

* Resources that don't change with the quantity produced.
* Or: Resources/inputs that, if you wanted to change, can not be changed.
	* i.e. rent. (most often capital)
	* In the short run, at least 1 input is fixed.

Variable Resources:

* Resources that do change with the quantity produced
	* i.e. labor
	* in the short run, variable inputs are ones that can easily be changed.

Something more tangible:

Say you wanted to cook steak... in Minecraft.

> What are the inputs?

* The raw beef (land)
* People to put the beef in a furnace and take out the steak from the furnace. (labor)
* Fuel i.e. coal (land)
* A furnace to cook the beef (capital).

> Similar to Chemistry, the Production Function bases itself on the Limiting Factor to determine the amount of output.
> The amount produced will always be limited by the amount of resources available.

* It takes 5 seconds to get one raw beef. == 12 steaks per minute.
* The furnace takes 10 seconds to smelt an item. == 6 steaks per minute.
* Coal is abundant.
* A worker takes 2 seconds to process one piece == 30 steaks per minute.

--> The furnace will be the "limiting factor".

> Say that the player wants more steak. Naturally they want to get another furnace, but they don't know how to mine cobblestone. They are then unable to make another furnace until their friend comes back with stone -- say his friend comes back in 10 days.

* The short run in this situation: the amount of furnaces we have will be **fixed** **for at least 10 days.** The short run will thus be up to 10 days.

> Say that we are able to get a smoker -- which cooks raw food in a mere 5 seconds -- that would directly lead to an increase in the quantity outputted. That is an example of technological advancements.

---
Total Physical Product (TP)

* Total output or quantity produced.

Marginal Product (MP)

* the additional output generated by additional inputs.
* Marginal Product = Change in total product / change in inputs.
	* Literally just marginal analysis [[1.6 Marginal Analysis and Consumer Choice]]

Average Product (AP)

* the output per unit of input.
* Total Product / Units of labor.

---
Some easy guidelines:

If MP > AP

 then AP is rising

if MP < AP

 then AP is falling

if MP = AP

 then AP is at its peak.

*Which are just derived mathematically.





