
### Profit = Total Revenue - Total Cost

---
### Types of Costs

**Explicit Costs** 
* a cost that involves actually laying out **money**.
* The direct out-of-pocket expenses. Only the tangible costs.

**Implicit Costs** 
* it is measured by value, in dollar terms, of benefits that are forgone.
	* i.e. opportunity costs and tradeoffs. What you could’ve made alternatively.

**Implicit Costs of Capital**
* opportunity cost of the capital used by a business - the income the owner could have realized from the capital if it had been used in its next best alternative way. 
	* e.g. instead of using the oven, you could sell it. The implicit cost of capital for using the oven is the money you get from selling the oven.

**Total Opportunity Cost**
* Total explicit costs + Total implicit costs

---

### Types of Profit

**Accounting Profit**
* A business’s total revenue minus explicit cost and depreciation.
	* depreciation - *reduction in value*.
	* What is reported to IRS.

**Economic Profit**
* A business’s total revenue minus the explicit cost + opportunity cost of its resources.
* Accounting profits minus the firm's implicit costs.
	* Usually less than the accounting profit.
	* `Profit` as a standalone term usually means economic profit.
	* If it's negative, that means you are better off doing the alternative / opportunity cost.

**Normal Profit**
* An economic profit equal to zero. Just high enough to keep a firm engaged in its current activity.
	* you could not be in a better situation doing something else.
	* It is the point where the business utilizes all the available resources efficiently, and the compensation is higher than the opportunity cost lost to produce the product.
	*  Normal profit is also referred to as "breaking even."

*Note: When we are experiencing a **normal** profit, it still means that our **accounting** profit is positive.*





