
Java has an Order of Operations

1. Parentheses
2. Multiplication, Division, Modular Operator. (left to right precedence).
3. Addition and Subtraction (left to right precedence)

---
###### Integer Division

- Happens when the dividend and divisor are both integers.
- Integer division only returns the quotient, and does not round.
	- i.e. 25/6 = 4
- Note that if the value from integer division is stored into a `double` variable, there must be a ".0" added to it.
	- i.e. `double z = 25/6` = 4.0

---
###### Float Division

- Happens when 
	- you are dividing a mixed expression that contains a double.
		- The less-complex data type is temporarily promoted to match the more complex type. (then the operator is applied)
	- you are dividing with two doubles.
- Float division is just standard division that includes the decimal. 

---
##### String Concatenation

- This is discussed in [[1.1 Variables]].
	- However, it gets a bit tricky with numbers in the print statement.
- Since the concatenation operator is "+", once a "+" follows a string literal, the rest of the + in the print statement get concatenated.  (rather than treated as addition)
	- i.e. `1 + 1 + "1" + 1 +"1"` is "2111"
		- note that the 4th 1 is not added to anything but is concatenated instead to become a string literal.
- Note that PEMDAS applies to concatenation as well:
	- i.e. `"3" + 4 * 2` is 38
		- multiplication comes before addition - hence 8 is concatenated with the string literal 3.

---
##### Errors

- Syntax error
	- occurs when the code does not follow correct syntax. 
		- i.e. missing semicolons, unmatched parentheses, incorrect use of keywords.
- Runtime Error
	- No syntax errors and will produce an error while the program is running.
		- i.e. dividing by 0 (`ArithmeticException` Error)

---
##### Modulus Operator

- returns the remainder after dividing. Notation is %.
- `10 % 6` = 4; `23 % 6` = 5
- Note that if the divisor is bigger than the dividend, then the remainder will just be the dividend.
	- i.e. `5 % 10` = 5

- Most popular use of the mod operator is determining if number is even or odd.
- `number` % 2. If = 0, then even. If = 1, then odd.

---
##### Unary Operator

- x++ 
	- post-increment operator. Increments the value of x by 1 AFTER the statement is called.
- ++y 
	- pre-increment operator. Increments the value of y by 1 BEFORE the statement is called.
- x--
	- post-decrement operator. Decreases the value of x by 1 AFTER the statement is called.
- --y
	- pre-decrement operator. Decreases the value of y by 1 BEFORE the statement is called.

i.e.
	``double example = 4.5;
	``System.out.println(++example);``  ``//5.5``
	``System.out.println(example++);`` ``//5.5
	``System.out.println(example);`` ``//6.5``

---
##### Compound Operator

- shorthand notation in programming that combines an operation with an assignment.

- Standard
	- `x = x + 2;`
- Compound
	- `x += 2;`

