
*Economics is the social science that studies the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.*

---

Microeconomics focuses on the micro: individual people and their decisions
- Decisions by an individual about what to do and what not to do.
- Why do individuals have to make choices?
	- There are limited resources available hence forcing you to choose between what to allot it to.

---

A resource is anything that can be used to produce something else.

Factors of Production (Resources) - Anything used to produce something else

- Land - comes from nature
- Labor - the time of workers
- Capital - built by humans/has had some aspect of human influence.
	- Human Capital - educational achievements and skills of workers.
- Entrepreneurship
	- innovation and thought

Note that for something to be considered a "resource," it has to be able to produce something else. Something like "cheeseburger" would not be considered as a resource.

- Trees are `land` but wood/lumber is `capital`
- Oil is `land`, gasoline is `capital`

Capital goods are goods used to produce consumer goods (purchased for personal use by customers). 
* Note that consumer goods can become capital goods if it is used to make more consumer goods.

---

Scarcity: Inequality exists between wants and the resources available to satisfy the wants.
	Scarcity = Wants > Available Resources
		hence you have to weight the costs and benefits to choose


Incentives are rewards or punishments that motivate particular choices.
- Incentives are used in the midst of scarcity to promote choices that are not attractive by itself. 

Marginal Analysis
- the study of costs and benefits of doing a little bit more of an activity versus a little bit less… how much of an activity is worth it?

When we make choices:

- Trade-off: alternatives that we give up whenever we choose one course of action over another.
	- Opportunity cost is the second-best choice. (The most attractive trade-off)

- Incentives: positive rewards for making some kind of choice or behaving in a certain way.
	- i.e. getting an “A” because you studied

- Disincentive - often relate to things such as punishment or consequences.
	- i.e. getting detention 


Since scarcity forces you to choose, there are three economic questions considered.

- What to produce
- How to produce
- For whom to produce.

Command Economy (Communism)
- Government owns all the factors of production
- Government answers the three economic questions

Free Market
- Individuals own the factors of production → Private business.
- Profit and Incentives
- Competition and self-interest

Mixed
- A system with free markets but some government intervention.

---
Positive vs. Normative Economics

- Positive Economics - What actually is (The fact)
	- The branch of economic analysis that describes the way the economy actually works

	- If it makes logical sense/could be proven then it is positive.
		- i.e. rising price of crude oil = increase in gas prices.
		- i.e. rise in average temperatures = increase in demand for sunscreen products.

- Normative Economics - What should be
	- Makes prescriptions about the way the economy should work. 
	- Much more opinion-based.
		- i.e. pollution is the most serious economic problem.


Bottom line: if it *can* be tested, it falls under Positive Economics.

1. Raising taxes on the wealthy to pay for government programs grows the economy
2. Raising taxes on the wealthy slows economic growth.
3. The government should raise taxes on the wealthy to pay for helping the poor. 

Which are normative and which are positive?

1 and 2 are seemingly contradictory and opposites - yet both of them are still `positive economics`. Why? Because they can be tested and can be proven (either true or false).

3 includes subjectivity. It is a matter of "what the government *should* do (according to the narrator)." That is why it's normative. 








