
*In a market economy, individuals engage in trade: they provide goods and services to others and receive goods and services in return.*

---
An economy is **efficient** if there is no missed opportunity.
- is good.

A situation in which individuals cannot make themselves better off by doing something different is **equilibrium**.
- is best.
	- you are not only being efficient, but completely min-maxing. 

Towards the goal of efficiency and equilibrium, specialization happens.
- There are gains from trade: people can get more of what they want through trade than they could if they tried to be self-sufficient.
	- depending on people that are better than you, while you main something else.

- This increase in output is due to specialization, each person specializes in the task that he or she is good at performing.

---
##### Per Unit Opportunity Cost

- Opportunity Cost / Units Gained.

Practice

*Ronald McDonald can produce 20 pizzas or 200 burgers. Papa John can produce 100 pizzas or 200 burgers.

1. What is Ronald's opportunity cost for one pizza in terms of burgers given up?
	1. 200 burgers / 20 pizzas = 1 pizza costs 10 burgers.
2. What is Ronald’s opportunity cost for one burger in terms of pizza given up?
	1. 20 pizzas / 200 burgers = 1 burger costs 1/10 pizza.
3. What is Papa John’s opportunity cost for one pizza in terms of burgers given up?
	1. 200 burgers / 100 pizzas = 1 pizza costs 2 burgers.
4. What is Papa John’s opportunity cost for one burger in terms of pizza given up?
	1. 100 pizza / 200 burgers = 1 burger costs 1/2 pizzas.

*Note that to find opportunity cost, it is "other over (the one you are finding the opportunity cost for).*"

So what?

Ronald has a **comparative advantage** in the production of burgers (lower opportunity cost)

Papa John has a **comparative advantage** in the production of pizza. (lower opportunity cost)

An individual has a comparative advantage in producing a good or service if the opportunity cost of producing the good or service is lower for that individual than for other people.

*Note that you can do a "shortcut" and a double-check by cross-multiplying the values. The larger combination (for output problems) is the pair with the comparative advantage.*


An individual has an absolute advantage in producing a good or service if he or she can make more of it with a given amount of time and resources.
- Absolute applies to efficiency of production.

So, Papa John has absolute advantage in pizzas (100 pizzas vs. 20 pizzas) and neither company has an absolute advantage in burgers (200 burgers vs 200 burgers)

---

The above was an "output" problem. With a set of x resources, how many pizzas and burgers can each company produce?


Now, we will go over "input" problems. Instead of x resources and how much they can produce, it is instead **how many resources it takes to produce 1 of the product**.

usually in time.

---
*The table shows the # of hours it takes to produce a ton of sausage and a ton of computers.*

|        | Sausage | Computers |
| ------ | ------- | --------- |
| Canada | 2       | 6         |
| UK     | 10      | 10        |


1. Which country has an absolute advantage in sausage?
	1. Because it is # of hours to make, the lowest number is the absolute advantage. It takes them the shortest amount of time (and thus resources) to make sausages, so they can produce the most sausages in x amount of time. 

2. What is Canada's opportunity cost for producing one computer?
	1. Unlike the output questions, finding per unit opportunity cost for input questions is the opposite. It is "other under (the product you are finding the opportunity cost for)".
	2. Thus, (6 computers) / (2 sausages) = one computer costs 3 sausages.
		1. Don't get confused. Remember that the units are "time to produce", so the lower number is actually the product the country is making more of.

3. Which has a comparative advantage in computers and which has a comparative advantage in sausage?
	1. Canada - Sausage. UK - Computer. 
		1. Again, the strategy is opposite of the output problems. The pair is the lower product. (20 < 60).

4. Terms of trade that can benefit both countries?
	1. 1 computer for 2 tons of sausage.
		1. First find which country is importing and which country is exporting. 
			1. In order for the importer to benefit, the trade has to be cheaper (lower) than their opportunity cost. Since they would just make it themselves if it was more expensive to trade.
			2. In order for the exporter to benefit, the trade has to be more expensive (greater) than their opportunity cost. Since they are making what they are exporting.
		2. Set the references of both to the same:  compare both countries' opportunity costs of computer or opportunity costs of sausage. 
		3. The answer is a number between them. 
			1. Canada: 1 computer costs 3 sausages. (importer of computer), (exporter of sausage)
				1. Canada wants a computer to cost less than 3 sausages.
			2. UK: 1 computer costs 1 sausage. (exporter of computer), (importer of sausage)
				1. UK wants more than 1 sausage per computer. 







